---
layout: post
title: "Outreachy : Everyone Struggles! "
date: 2021-6-13
---
Everyone starts out not knowing things. That's nice, you don't need to know everything! :) <br>
This blog is about a vocabulary term I didn’t know very well about when I was applying for Outreachy 

<h2>What are Onion services?</h2>
Onion services (formerly known as “hidden services”) are services that are only accessible through the Tor network. And, onion site refers exclusively to websites accessible via Tor. For example, the DuckDuckGo onion is https://3g2upl4pq6kufc4m.onion. Every onion service has its own public private key pair and you address them using the public key. There's no middle man or certificate providing authority who can decide what is to encrytped. 
<p>These website never go out of Tor (you can't find them the typical way as onions are not indexed in search engines) so the address must be shared with you by the website host.
</p>
<p><strong>These services use .onion Top Level Domain (TLD) (instead of .com, .net, .org, etc.)</strong>
The traffic generated by onion services <strong>doesn't ever leave the Tor network</strong> which means they do not have an exit relay!
<br>Most onion services use six hops in a circuit.
</p>Onion-Location is a new HTTP header that web sites can use to advertise their onion counterpart. If the web site that you're visiting has an onion site available, a purple suggestion pill will prompt at the URL bar saying ".onion available". When you click on ".onion available", the web site will be reloaded and redirected to its onion counterpart.


A list of our Onion Services is available at _onion.torproject.org._

<h2>What's the need?</h2>
The goal of Tor is to protect **meta-data**, which contains alot of information.<br>
_Onion services allow people to browse but also to publish anonymously, including publishing anonymous websites._ That is, you can offer a web server etc, without revealing your IP address to its users. In this way, protection for both the user and the server is acheived.<br>
<p>
One of the scenarios where you would need these are Secure drop. This is basically a way of interacting in a back-and-forth way with journalists where let's say you got to know some story about some terrible thing the government did and you want to reveal this and get it in the hands of the New York Times or The Washington Post or any other xyz, so that they can write a good article about it but, you want to stay anonymous. Thus, no one would know who the author is and can't put the source at risk.
</p>
